# SA-EST
Simulator of Anesthesia - Event Sequences and Traces
Sequence generator module

This module uses as parameters a specific grammar for the Surgery and Anesthesia. With this grammar and the event database it generates an event sequence.

# Aim

The aim of this module is to generate an unique sequence of different events from a reference sequence of events, a "chirurgical reference sequence".

# Run

To run the sequence_generator program you have to use this command :
```
./sequence_generator [grammar_file] [patient_parameters_file] [path_to_drug_database] [path_to_gesture_database]
```

Where :
- [grammar_file] is the path of the json file containing the surgery grammar
- [patient_parameters_file] is the path of the file containing each parameter of the patients
- [path_to_drug_database] is the path to the drug event binary files
- [path_to_gesture_database] is the path to the gesture event binary files

# Input

This program need 2 input files : a *grammar file* containing the chirurgical reference sequence on a grammar format, and a *patient file*.
The program need to access to the event database.

## Grammar file

The grammar file contain the chirurgical reference sequence for one specific surgery. This file is in a json format.

It is composed of 4 levels of event, the 2 first level are common to all grammar, and the 2 last levels are specific to the surgery.

The common part is structurel like this :

On level 1, there is 4 sections corresponding to the 4 main step in a anesthesia : Enter, Induction, Procedure and Exit.
Each level 1 section is subdivised in level 2 section like so :
- Enter : setting up, premedication before monitoring, monitoring, premedication after monitoring
- Induction : preoxygenation, medication, intubation, control_and_end_of_induction
- Procedure :preparation, procedure
- Exit : decurarisation, ending

Each level 2 sections is subdivised in level 3 sections specific to the surgery. A level 3 section can be subdivised in level 4 section if it revelant for the specific surgery.

Each final section (level 3 or level 4) contain step of the surgery. Each step is a json tab composed of alternative events.

Each event is composed of a ID code, specific to the event, and a probability specific to this event in this surgery.

## patient file

The *patient file* contain all the information specific to the medical condition and background of the patient. These information will be used by the program to reduce inconsistancy in the generated sequence with the patient.

The file is composed of *Tags* and values. A *tag* should begin by a # and the name of the tag is case sensitive, `age` and `Age` or  `AGE` are 3 differents tags. The corresponding value of a tag should be in the line directly under the tag. Like so :

```
#age
30
#sex
M
#hight
175
#weight
80
```

The tag order in the file has no importance.

The tags in use are (for the moment) :
- `#age` : age of the patient, only an interger corresponding to the age in years with no unity
- `#sex` : sex of the patient, *M* for male, *F* for femmale
- `#hight` : for the hight of the patient, corresponding to the hight in centimeter with no unity
- `#weight` : for the wight of the patient,  corresponding to the weight in kilograms with no unity

# Output

The program will end after the generation of 2 files, a text sequence in a .txt file, and a event vector sequence in a .bin file.

## Event text sequence

The file of the event text sequence is composed of each ID code of each event in order of the sequence separated by a `|`. There is no `|` before the first event and after the last event.  

## Event vector sequence

The file of the event vector sequence is in a binary format. It is generated by the serialisation of an event vector object defined in the anesthesia database classes. For more information on that object, look the anesthesia_database documentation.
